---
layout: post
title: "Issue One: Political Drama Heats Up"
date: 2020-07-19 13:07:11 -0400
tags: issue
---
The Union Free Press  
Issue Two | Sunday, July 19 | Union of Democratic States  
Editor: Glaciosia  


## Torn Between Worlds: Euro Treaty Controversial  
**News | Glaciosia**  
The proposed Republica Accords, introduced into the Senate by Thatcher Whitehall, which would establish a Non Aggression Pact (NAP) between Europeia and the UDS, along with provisions for civil rights, anti-recruitment and cultural exchange has become suddenly more controversial after a smooth sail through the legislative process. Kuriko, UDS citizen , WA Delegate of XKI and founder of The Hole to Hide In, disapproved of the move by the Union, citing the actions of the Europeian Armed Forces in forcing her region A Hole To Hide In to leave for its current home, as AHTHI was at the time a late-updating region, usable as a jump point in raiding operations, and the regions allegedly disrespectful response to her objections at the time.


> They're the reason why I had to shut down A Hole To Hide In and move the entire community to THTHI  
> Which caused extreme angst and lost members of my community.


Her comments sparked debate among Citizens and Senators about the propriety of a NAP with Europeia, as well as the circumstances which led to this piece of context being unknown to many involved in the previous voting on the measure.
*Glaciosia is a Minister in the Executive Branch*

## Admin Team Changes  
**News | Glaciosia**  
The Administrative Team, in a flurry of activity has done the following: appointed Glaciosia as an Administrative Assistant, removed Kade from the position of Associate Administrator, promoted Dome Artan and Kanglia to the newly created Moderator position and refreshed the server rules and #information-kiosk
*Glaciosia is a member of the Administrative Team.*


## Zukchiva: Admirable Performance as Senate Substitute
**Opinion | Glaciosia**  
Notable citizen Zukchiva, appointed as Senate Substitute by Glaciosia, performed exceptionally well as the interim Speaker, even though they weren’t considering those duties when they accepted the offer:

> “TBQH, I completely forgot Glac was Speaker when I offered (though I'm not gonna back out now, nw)”

They have the endorsement of Glaciosia and the Free Press should they run for Senate in the future.


## Union Day: Advanced Planning Necessary for Best Results
**Opinion | Glaciosia**  
The 5th Anniversary of the Union’s founding, December 18th of this year, deserves to have an appropriate celebration. We have come far in those years, and our region has grown into something beautiful. We should establish a committee or organization to begin planning and preparations for the event, and I believe we should set our sights high: have fun, show the rest of the world what the Union is about, and celebrate how far we have come, honor our past and explore our future.

## Call for Editorial Content
**From the Editor’s Desk | Glaciosia**  
The Union Free Press staff would like to announce that we are looking for any interested people who have a perspective that they would like to share on regional issues to submit a letter to the editor. 

## Debates
**From the Editor’s Desk | Glaciosia**  
The Union Free Press would like to host, or help host a Senatorial debate prior to the next election. We welcome the cooperation of other media organizations, and suggest that they contact Glaciosia on Discord. More information forthcoming.


## Editor’s Statement
**From the Editor’s Desk | Glaciosia**  
Hello Union! Say hello to Issue #2, only many many months after issue #1, I am glad to be back in my journalism chair, and this has nothing at all to do with the ebil admins threatening me! All jokes aside, I really am happy to be publishing again, and I hope I can pump out a few more before the channel is up for archival next. I have made an attempt to note any conflicts of interest I may have on News articles I published, in order to hold up to our mission of transparency. Thanks for reading!
