---
layout: post
title: 'Issue Six: Constitutional Questions, Recruitment Tool Lost'
date: 2022-03-01 23:15
author: Glaciosia
tags: issue
summary: 
---

## Court Case Shows the Necessity of Constitutional Reform 
**Opinion |** Glaciosia

As we have seen with the issues uncovered in the ongoing Legal Question before the supreme court,the current constitution has some pretty significant questions that need to be resolved. I obviously am not arguing for replacing it, but we need to have a conversation about our constitution's philosophy and how it deals with power and authority. For my part, I have distributed my own draft of a replacement for Article III (The Executive) of our constitution, which we have seen to be causing the most problems. 

What my proposal would do is create a split between the President, the Presidency, and the Executive. I believe the President should be personally given the powers of regulating the executive branch, hiring and firing Ministers, being head of state, signing or vetoing laws, etc. However, I think the best way of dealing with the more general executive powers, and the *de facto* but currently not *de jure* power of the executive branch to "fill in the gaps" left by the rest of the government is to give it to a general "Executive", lead and governed by the President, but consisting of them, the Vice President, and the Ministries. 

I think this is basically a codification of how our government currently works, but grounds it in a solid theoretical framework and could still leave room for other ideas the Union has historically appreciated (a "Cabinet" of advisors/ministers, ministers without portfolio, etc.) I don't believe my proposal to be complete so I will post it on Liberty Square for more comment from the public.

## Manual Recruitment Sunk by NS Mods' Changes
**News |** Glaciosia

The Union's Manual Recruitment program, previously operating quite succesfully through the contribution of a few citizens through a discord bot called Dot which gave users a link to the telegram page which prefilled nation recipients and the telegram template, allowing users to send recruitment telegrams with only the click of a button; this function and all others like it were recently ruled illegal by the Nationstates moderation team, citing them as interacting automatically with the telegrams page (which is not allowed). This has caused an almost complete dropoff of manual recruitment in the UDS, likely to have drastic consequences for our population.

## States Project Launches
**News |** Glaciosia

The States Project, the ever promised, never completed goal of months of Presidential campaigns, has finally been launched, with a reasonable amount of involvement in the build up to the contest, but seemingly little buyin from the community with regards to the competition aspect of the program. Glaciosia, the programs administrator, has proposed changes to incentivize manual recruitment by changing the points scheme.

*Glaciosia, the author of this article is also the program administrator of the States Project and Vice President of the UDS*

## Defender Cooperation
**News |** Glaciosia

The UDSAF, the Union's Defender Military, recently completed a succesful joint detagging operation (jumping through several nationstates regions and removing raider "tags" and propoganda), which hopefully serves as a beacon of future cooperation between the UDS and it's fellow defender regions. 


